## CYW20829 platform description

### Prerequisites

#### Cysecuretools

The CYW20829 chip has a set of security features. The special tool called `cysecuretools` is required to use most of them.

Cysecuretools is a Python3 package, which can be installed using the conventional `python pip` packet manager:

    python -m pip install cysecuretools

Cysecuretools is used for reprovisioning of the chip, revocation of keys, security counter updates, image encryption and more. For more details on functionality, go to https://pypi.org/project/cysecuretools/

Invocation of cysecuretools is build-in post build jobs for `MCUBootApp` and `BlinkyApp`, so the user gets ready to use images after build.

### MCUBootApp specifics

### Default memory map

This repository provides a set of predefined memory maps in JSON files. They are located in `cy_flash_pal/flash_%platform_name%/flashmap`. One can use the predefined flash map or define its own using the predefined file as a template.

### Encrypted image support

CYW20829 does not have internal flash memory, so both primary and secondary images are located in external memory.

To protect the firmware from read, place it in external memory in the encrypted form.

CYW20829 can execute encrypted firmware directly using the onboard hardware interface (SMIF) with special mode XIP (eXecute-In-Place). In this mode all code is decrypted transparently by AES algorithm.

MCUboot has its own Encrypted image mode to encrypt the firmware and transfer it with the AES session key included in the HKDF data block.

**MCUboot image validation flow**

- Decrypt the AES key / initial vector (IV) from HKDF
- Set up AES IV + CTR nonce (Image addr = base_addr + header_size)
- Read slot data by MMIO
- Decrypt the image in the slot using MCUboot internal functionality
- Calculate and verify hash from decrypted data
- Validate the slot image by hash and sign it

**MCUboot image upgrade flow**

- Read slot 1 sector data using MMIO
- Skip data decryption
- Write data to the primary slot using MMIO

**MCUboot Application Run**
- Set up SMIF registers
- Set the AES key
- Set AES IV
- Set SMIF mode to XIP
- Go to the application entry point

MCUBootApp and BlinkyApp can be built with an encrypted image plus encrypted XIP support using special build flags `ENC_IMG=1`. That flag will automatically enable XIP mode.

Example build command for MCUBootApp:

    make clean app APP_NAME=MCUBootApp PLATFORM=CYW20829 BUILDCFG=Debug FLASH_MAP=cy_flash_pal/flash_cyw208xx/flashmap/cyw20829_xip_swap_single.json ENC_IMG=1

Example build command for BlinkyApp:

    make clean app APP_NAME=BlinkyApp PLATFORM=CYW20829 BUILDCFG=Debug FLASH_MAP=cy_flash_pal/flash_cyw208xx/flashmap/cyw20829_xip_swap_single.json ENC_IMG=1

### Rollback protection Support

The CYW20829 platform has a hardware-supported feature - a non-volatile counter (NV-counter). This feature is used by the MCUboot library to implement the rollback counter (security counter) protection. NV-counter on CYW20829 is implemented as an Efuse-type region that can only be incremented. This means, that each time a new counter value is updated - a corresponding number of Efuse is burned.

The initial value of the rollback counter is programmed into the chip at the provisioning stage. The provisioning policy for Secure mode contains a corresponding field:


        "reprovisioning":
        {
            "nv_counter": {
                "description": "Anti-rollback counter (supports up to 32 updates)",
                "value": 0
            },

If the `nv_counter` value is left untouched, any image with counters higher than 0 and less than (or equal to) 32 can be programmed into the chip.

When preparing an image for MCUBootApp with the rollback counter support, sign it with `cysecuretools` using `policy/policy_reprovisioning_secure.json` supplied with it. The `nv_counter` value remains the same as one in the chip or set higher. When signing image `cysecuretools` places the `nv-counter` value and the reprovisioning packet in TLVs with tags 0x50 (plain value of counter) and 0x51 (reprovisioning packet). MCUBootApp then parses these tags and compares the value supplied with the image against the one stored in the Efuse counter.

#### NV-counter update

The CYW20829 chip is designed so that the first stage bootloader called `BootROM` has most of the rights to modify the system - it is executed in the privileged protection context. Only BootROM can modify the content of Efuse where the NV counter is stored. BootROM supports the special type of service applications used when the user needs to modify the system. These apps are also provided with `cysecuretools` under `targets/cyw20829/packets/apps`. The `reprovisioning` application is used for NV-counter update.

To enable the rollback counter feaure, one have to use a JSON flash map with the `"service_app"` section. Sample flash maps are located in `boot/cypress/cy_flash_pal/flash_cyw208xx/flashmap/hw_rollback_prot`.

The service application is supplied as a precompiled binary executed from RAM by BootROM. User should program either `cyapp_reprovisioning_signed.hex` (located at `./MCUBootApp/out/CYW20829/Debug/cyapp_reprovisioning_signed.hex`) or similar binary `./packets/apps/reprovisioning/cyapp_reprovisioning_signed.bin` (with the `"address"` specified in the `"service_app"` section of JSON flash map). Some other data is required for BootROM to execute the service app - this data is prepared by MCUBootApp.

When MCUBootApp detects that the rollback counter must be updated on CYW20829, it executes the function, which prepares input data and service application descriptor data and places it in flash at addresses `"params_address"` and `"desc_address"`, respectively (see the `"service_app"` section in JSON flash map). Then, it sets the special flag in the service register, which signalizes BootROM to launch the service application and calls a system reset. BootROM is then detects the service app with its data, copies it to the corresponding addresses in RAM and executes it. Reprovisioning app then updates the `nv-counter` value in Efuse. An automatic reset can (and for convenience should) be initiated after that. To allow this value, `sys_reset_req` is set to `true` (`false` by default).

            "sys_reset_req": {
                "description": "Resets a device after RAM application finishes execution.",
                "value": true
            }

For more details on BootROM service applications, refer to the CYW20829 documentation.

#### Rollback counter behavior

**Case 1**

An image is singed using the `policy_reprovisioning_secure.json` policy with `nv-counter` field value set to 1; the current value of NV-counter in chip is `0` and programmed to the primary slot of MCUBootApp.

MCUBootApp validates the image in the primary slot and initiates a rollback counter update. The image in the primary slot is started after that.

**Case 2**

An image is signed using the `policy_reprovisioning_secure.json` policy with `nv-counter`, the field value is set to 2; the current value of NV-counter in the chip is `1` and programmed into the secondary slot of MCUBootApp. The ugrade type is swap using the status partition.

MCUBootApp validates the image in the secondary slot and initiates a firmware upgrade. After swapping the primary and 
secondary images, the firmware from the primary slot is executed immediately after upgrade.

- If upgraded firmware operates correctly - starts its execution and sets the confirmation flag (read more in the design.md file), then, after a next reset, MCUBootApp updates the rollback counter value as in Case 1.

- If upgraded firmware operates incorrectly - does not start or does not set the confirmation flag, the watchdog initiates a system reset and MCUBootApp performs the `revert` operation - copies back the previous firmware from the secondary to the primary slot, marks the image in the secondary slot as invalid and executes the original firmware from the primary slot. **The rollback counter is not updated in this case.**

**Case 3**

An image is signed with the `policy_reprovisioning_secure.json` policy with `nv-counter`, the field value is set to 3; the current value of NV-counter in chip is `4` and programmed to the secondary or primary slot of MCUBootApp. The upgrade type is swap using the status partition.

MCUBootApp tries to validate the image, detects that the value of the rollback counter stored in the chip is greater than the one provided with the image, and rejects such an image. The firmware in the primary slot will not start and upgrade will not be initiated.

When the reprovisioning packet TLV is absent in the primary or secondary image TLVs, MCUBootApp marks such an image as invalid.

**Multi image case**

Since there is only one physical security counter available on `CYW20829` in multi image use case, all images in system should have the same value of security counter.

For example two images are programmed to their corresponding BOOT slots with security counter value of 2. Value of security counter stored in chip is also 2. In case one of images requires update and its value of security counter is increased to 3 - second image should also be updated with counter value of 3. This is required because `BootROM` will update security image counter stored in chip to 3 per first upgrade image. After that - second image would become invalid sice it still contains security counter of 2.

An example of the build command for MCUBootApp with the rollback counter support:

    make clean app APP_NAME=MCUBootApp PLATFORM=CYW20829 BUILDCFG=Debug FLASH_MAP=cy_flash_pal/flash_cyw208xx/flashmap/hw_rollback_prot/cyw20829_xip_swap_single.json

An example of the build command for BlinkyApp with TLVs containing rollback counter data:

    make clean app APP_NAME=BlinkyApp PLATFORM=CYW20829 BUILDCFG=Debug APP_DEFAULT_POLICY=./policy/policy_reprovisioning_secure.json FLASH_MAP=cy_flash_pal/flash_cyw208xx/flashmap/hw_rollback_prot/cyw20829_xip_swap_single.json

### Build environment preparation

For cysecuretools environment setup, the MCUboot `boot/cypress` folder is used.

To create common CYW20829 configuration, use:

    cysecuretools -t cyw20829 init

To configure an OpenOCD package patch (via ModusToolbox™ by default):

    cysecuretools set-ocd --name openocd --path C:/Users/%USERNAME%/ModusToolbox/tools_2.4/openocd

This is enough for a NORMAL_NO_SECURE lifecycle. But for SECURE `LCS`, a few more steps are necessary.

You will need to generate an RSA key pair (or copy it to keys folder, if it was generated previously), in order to provision a silicon in Secure mode:

    cysecuretools -t cyw20829 -p policy/policy_secure.json create-key -k N

where N is the key number, zero or one.

To get access to the chip after provisioning, a debug certificate is required:

    cysecuretools -t cyw20829 -p policy/policy_secure.json debug-certificate -t packets/debug_cert.json -o packets/debug_cert.bin -k N

where N is the key number, zero or one.

### CYW20829 provisioning

For the first provision of CYW20829 chip, use:

    cysecuretools -t cyw20829 -p policy/policy_%LCS%.json provision-device

or

    cysecuretools -t cyw20829 -p policy/policy_reprovisioning_%LCS%.json reprovision-device [--key-id N]

for the following reprovision procedure.

For more details on the CYW20829 environment setup and provisioning, go to the cysecuretools `README_CYW20829.md` file.

### Programming applications

#### Using OpenOCD from command line

The following instruction assume the usage of one of Cypress KitProg3 devices and a development board.

Connect the board to your computer. Switch Kitprog3 to DAP-BULK mode by clicking the `SW3 MODE` button until `LED2 STATUS` constantly shines.

Open the terminal application and execute the following command after substitution of the `PATH_TO_APPLICATION` and `OPENOCD` variables:

    export OPENOCD=/Applications/ModusToolbox/tools_2.4/openocd

    $OPENOCD_PATH/bin/openocd -s $OPENOCD_PATH/scripts -c "set ENABLE_ACQUIRE 0" -f $OPENOCD_PATH/scripts/interface/kitprog3.cfg -c "set SMIF_BANKS { 0 {addr 0x60000000 size 0x4000000 psize 0x1000 esize 0x40000} }" -f $OPENOCD_PATH/scripts/target/cyw20829.cfg -c "init; reset init; cmsis_flash init; flash write_image %PATH_TO_APPLICATION%/BlinkyApp.hex; shutdown"

**Warning**

The application slot is erased by `flash erase_address` before executing the `flash write_image` command.
 
